# Import configuration
Import configuration is a generic structure that controls data import from a source to a time serie format in MAIS. The structure has two layers made of transitory parameters to support import of data from any table/view source:
- Import procedure level - table [A_IMPORT PROCEDURE]. It defines a stored procedure to call and most commonly it sets the data source name. Do not confuse it with the SQL stored procedures. The same SQL stored procedure can be used in multiple import procedures. 
- Import level - table [A_IMPORT]. It refines the parameters of the assigned procedure for a specific time serie.
Import parameters such as [source] can be left empty and they will use [source] from the assigned procedure. Most commonly [filter] parameter will be set as time series will differ by the filter which goes into the [where] clause of the generated SQL. 

All parameters can be written in sql expressions syntax. 

Parameters are premerged in the view [A_IMPORT_RUN] and are accessed within MAIS stored procedures directly from data. 
```sql

-- Parameters defined at interface/ SP level / to select and batch run several imports after each other
	@activity_id int = 0 -- run imports for an activity_id
	@forecast_id int = 0 -- run imports for a forecast_id
	@import_id int = 0 -- run import_id
	@session_id nvarchar(50)  = null -- session id for loging, keep empty for an autogenerated uid
	@commands varchar(2000)='' -- '-PRINT -LOG_ROWCOUNT -LOG_INSERT -LOG_DELETE -NOGROUPBY -SUMFIELDS -NOINTRADAY -NODELTA -INTRADAY -VERSION -HELP -NOSCHEDULE;  
	@procedure_name nvarchar(200)='A_SP_IMPORT' -- run procedure name or an app name, use % to broaden the selection
	@site_id int = 0 -- site to run
	@category nvarchar(200) ='' -- procedure category to run; empty to run all categories

-- Parameters obtained from the configuration tables and the join view [A_IMPORT_RUN] 
-- These parameters cannot be passed into SP directly by must be managed in the procedure/import tables.
-- Source data parameters
	DECLARE @filter nvarchar(4000)=''           -- where filter for filtering source data
	DECLARE @date_import_from date='9999-01-01' -- calculated by the import query using imports and procedures fields
	DECLARE @date_import_until date='1900-01-01'
	DECLARE @fields_source varchar(2000)=''     -- source fields
	DECLARE @fields_target varchar(2000)=''     -- target fields , eg value1,value2
	DECLARE @schedule varchar(2000)=''
	DECLARE @source varchar(2000)=''
	DECLARE @group_by varchar(2000)=''

-- target parameters
	DECLARE @fact_day nvarchar(200) ='[A_FACT_DAY]' -- data per day stored here
	DECLARE @fact_intraday nvarchar(200)='[A_FACT_INTRADAY]' -- data per day/interval_id is stored here. conform a_time_interval dimension

-- free to use parameters
	DECLARE @p1 varchar(2000)=''                
	DECLARE @p2 varchar(2000)=''
	DECLARE @p3 varchar(2000)=''
	DECLARE @p4 varchar(2000)=''
	DECLARE @p5 varchar(2000)=''
	
```
    

## Parameters

### Commands
#### -DELTA
This parameter forces begin and end date of the date range to be adjusted to the source date range. Data will be refreshed only for the range between min and max dates of the source. 
* TIP1. If the source goes far back in history and this data is not changed, you may want to experience performance issues as more and more data will be refreshed each load. 
* TIP2. Handy parameter to be used as the standard for the small sources
* TIP3. When using DELTA take extra care of the date data quality in your source. in some cases empty dates may resolve into default dates such as 1899-12-12 , the will lead to the total refresh of the import serie.

From may 2022 -DELTA is default, you do not have to include it. In case you need hard overload of data use -NODELTA

#### -NODELTA
This parameter will turn of min and max dates detection from the source. all data within date_from  and date_until specified via a procedure and or an import, will be deleted and inserted. if your source has a shorter date range, more records will be deleted than inserted. 

#### -SUMFIELDS
This parameter will force following:
* add SUM function to every source column 
*  force group by clause (cancel -NOGROUPBY if it was used) 
Consider an example:
Import from file source (Excel) uses  -NOGROUPBY at the procedure level, all underlying imports inherit this command. Data is imported without grouping as we have mostly situation that one row is one date. 
Suddenly we get Excel from the Business with more rows per date because data per day is split according to contracts of the employees. 
We cannot simply remove  -NOGROUPBY command as it will solve the last request but will brake all existing imports with one row per day. 
By adding a command -SUMFIELDS to the new imports , we force sum for the new imports and keep integrity of the rest. 

BEFORE the command:

 INSERT INTO [dbo].[A_FACT_DAY] 
 ([date],activityid,forecastid,importid,Value1)
 SELECT date,460, 4,4354,H FROM [S_1_W].[A_SOURCE_FILE] 
 WHERE (source='BFC/KRIMP/ZABI') AND date BETWEEN '2022-01-03' AND '2023-01-01';

AFTER the command:

 INSERT INTO [dbo].[A_FACT_DAY] ([date],activityid,forecastid,importid,Value1)
 SELECT date,460, 4,4354,SUM(convert(float,H)) FROM [S_1_W].[A_SOURCE_FILE] 
 WHERE (source='BFC/KRIMP/ZABI') AND date BETWEEN '2022-01-03' AND '2023-01-01' GROUP BY date;


#### -PRINT 
Allows output of the generated queries as a text message in Management Studio for debug purposes. The queries are not executed.
